Roll method (#3201)
Codecademy/docs: content/java/concepts/calendar/terms/roll/roll.md

---
Title: '.roll()' 

> Description: 'Used to operate on the given calendar by moving up or down by a single unit' 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Used to operate on the given calendar by moving up or down by a single unit.' 
```

Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags: 
  - 'Date'
  - 'Methods'
CatalogContent: 
  - 'learn-java'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The **.roll()** method for the `Calendar` class will be able to add or substract a single unit of time on the given calendar without changing the larger fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`.roll()`** method for the `Calendar` class can be used to add or subtract a single unit of time on the given calendar without changing the larger fields.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo

> calendar.roll(int calndr_field, boolean up_down)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
calendar.roll(calndr_field, bool_flag)
```

```

> This method takes two arguments, 'int calndr_field', which will be used to select which field of the calendar you will use (YEAR,MONTH,DAY). The second one `boolean up_down` will add a single unit of time if true or will substract a single unit of time if false.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This method takes two arguments, `calndr_field`, which will be used to select which field of the calendar you will use (`YEAR`, `MONTH`, `DAY`). The second one `bool_flag` will add a single unit of time if `true` or will subtract a single unit of time if `false`.
```

## Example

> In the following example, `.roll()` is being used to add and substract one year to the calendar being used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, `.roll()` is being used to add and subtract one year to the calendar being used.
```

> ```java

Reviewer: update the code to use 2 spaces for indentation instead of tabs

import java.util.*;
public class roll_method {
    public static void main(String args[])
    {
  
        // Creating a calendar.
        Calendar calndr = Calendar.getInstance();
  
        // Current Year.
        System.out.println("The Current Year is: "+ calndr.get(Calendar.YEAR));
  
        // Decrementing the year, false will substract a single unit.
        calndr.roll(Calendar.YEAR, false);
  
        // Showing year after operation
        System.out.println("The New Year is: "+ calndr.get(Calendar.YEAR));
  
        // Incrementing the year, true will add a single unit.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Syntax

```pseudo
calendar.roll(calndr_field, bool_flag)
```

This method takes two arguments, `calndr_field`, which will be used to select which field of the calendar you will use (`YEAR`, `MONTH`, `DAY`). The second one `bool_flag` will add a single unit of time if `true` or will subtract a single unit of time if `false`.

## Example

In the following example, `.roll()` is being used to add and subtract one year to the calendar being used.

```java
import java.util.*;

public class roll_method {
  public static void main(String args[]) {

    // Creating a calendar.
    Calendar calndr = Calendar.getInstance();

    // Current Year.
    System.out.println("The Current Year is: " + calndr.get(Calendar.YEAR));

    // false will decrement the year by subtracting a single unit of time.
    calndr.roll(Calendar.YEAR, false);

    // Showing year after operation.
    System.out.println("The New Year is: " + calndr.get(Calendar.YEAR));

    // true will increment the year by adding a single unit of time.
    calndr.roll(Calendar.YEAR, true);

    // Showing year after operation.
    System.out.println("The New Year is: " + calndr.get(Calendar.YEAR));
  }
}

```

> The output of the above code will be:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The output of the above code will be like the following:
```
In the future the output will change because the current year will be different.
